### Types of ML problems
* Classification - Binary, Multi-class, Multi-label
* Regression
* Clustering
* Association rule learning or Recommendation engines
* NLP - Entity extraction, NLU, generation, seq-to-seq learning
* Search result ranking

### Deciding on ML
**https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/problem-framing/try-it/framing-exercise**
* Start Clearly and Simply - In plain terms, **what would you like your ML model to do?** It can be qualitative or quantitative at this point - We want the ML model to predict how popular a video just uploaded will become in the future.
* Adding your ML model to your system should produce a **desirable/ideal outcome**. This outcome may be quite different from how you assess the model and its quality. Video Recommendations	- Our ideal outcome is to suggest videos that people find useful, entertaining, and worth their time.Video Recommendations	Our ideal outcome is to suggest videos that people find useful, entertaining, and worth their time. focus on the larger objective of your product or service
* Success and Failure Metrics: How will you know if your system has succeeded or failed? Your success and failure metrics should be phrased independently of your evaluation metrics such as precision, recall, or AUC. Instead, specify the anticipated outcomes. 
  * **success metrics,  key results (KR) for the success metrics, ML model is deemed a failure if**
* A measurable metric provides enough information for successful real-world evaluation.
  * How will you measure your metrics?
  * When can you measure your metrics?
  * How long will it take to know whether your new ML system is a success or failure?
* Properties of Good Output
  * The **Output** Must Be Quantifiable with a Clear Definition that the Machine can Produce - Did the user enjoy watching the video? vs. Did the user share the video? You will have to use proxy labels
  * The Output Should Be Connected To Your Ideal Outcome 
    * Predict whether the user will share the article -	Show the user articles they will like.
    * Predict whether the video will be popular -	Suggest videos that people find useful and worth their time.
    * Predict whether the user will install an app from an app store -	Find apps the user will use often and enjoy. 
  * Can You Obtain Example Outputs to Use for Training Data? supervised data is available or not
* Using the Output - **How will your product use the predictions?** Remember, you want to use ML to make decisions, not just predictions. How will you turn your model's predicted outcome into a decision?
  * What data does your code have access to when it needs to call the model?
  * What are your latency requirements? Do you need to run quickly to avoid lagging in your UI, or are you running without a user waiting for your model? - make sure you can get each feature within your latency requirements. Using data from remote services may make certain features expensive from a latency standpoint. For example, if you wanted to use the current weather as a feature for your camera app, you might find that the latency from looking up the current weather is too high and causes unacceptable slowdown in your app.
  * Be wary of using out-of-date data. Note that training data is sometimes several days old. When running on live traffic, you might encounter cases where data you'd like to use isn't yet available. Perhaps your database only updates a user's history every 30 minutes, so you don't have access to their most recent data when making your prediction. 
* Bad Objectives
  * Maximize Click Rate - Users may click on something but then not stay on it very long
  * Maximize Watch Time - Users may watch a long time, but then exit the session
  * Maximize Session Watch Time - This model still favors longer videos, which is still a problem as diversity is impacted
  * Increase Diversity & Maximize Session Watch Time - When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure

### Define a ML problem & propose a solution
**https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/problem-framing/try-it/formulate-exercise**
* Articulate your problem - What are you trying to solve, how is it helping end-user?, What problem is my product facing?, Would it be a good problem for ML?
* See if any labeled data exits - supervised or unsupervised, How much labeled data do you have? What is the source of your label? Is your label closely connected to the decision you will be making?
* Design your data for the model - construct data set
* Determine where data comes from - Assess how much work it will be to develop a data pipeline to construct each column for a row. When does the example output become available for training purposes? If the example output is difficult to obtain, you might want to revisit your output, and examine whether you can use a different output for your model
* Determine easily obtained inputs - Pick 1-3 inputs that are easy to obtain and that you believe would produce a reasonable, initial outcome
* Think about potential bias - A biased data source may not translate across multiple contexts
* Determine quantifiable outputs - Online & offline metrics

### Identify Good problems for ML
* Clear Use Case - What problem is my product facing?, Would it be a good problem for ML?
* Know the Problem Before Focusing on the Data - list some potential solutions to test in order to generate the best model
* Lean on Your Team's Logs - Data might not be collected for your specific task but understand how can it be useful
* Predictive Power - Always make sur ethat you are using relevant features in the model and not using all the features that are available
* Predictions vs. Decisions - ML is better at making decisions than giving you insights
  * What video the learner wants to watch next.	Show those videos in the recommendation bar.
  * Probability someone will click on a search result.	If P(click) > 0.12, prefetch the web page.
  * What fraction of a video ad the user will watch.	If a small fraction, don't show the user the ad.
  
### ML Process
1. Set the research goal - I want to predict how heavy traffic will be on a given day.
2. Make a hypothesis -	I think the weather forecast is an informative signal.
3. Collect the data -	Collect historical traffic data and weather on each day.
4. Test your hypothesis -	Train a model using this data.
5. Analyze your results -	Is this model better than existing systems?
6. Reach a conclusion -	I should (not) use this model to make predictions, because of X, Y, and Z.
7. Refine hypothesis and repeat -	Time of year could be a helpful signal.

### Hard ML problems
* Clustering - What does each cluster mean in an unsupervised learning problem? You can try to assign a meaning to a cluster, but this can be tricky because the model might not group by criteria that you find intuitive. One alternative approach is to label some items before you cluster, and then try to propagate those labels across the entire cluster. For instance, if all items with label X end up in one cluster, maybe you can spread label X to other examples.
* Anomaly Detection - The trick is, how do you decide what constitutes an anomaly to get labeled data? One option is to define a heuristic and use it to label anomalies. 
* Causation -  it is easy to see that something happened, but much harder to understand why it happened. Did consumers buy a particular book because they saw a positive review the week before, or would they have bought it even without that review?
* No Existing Data - Without data, use a simple, heuristic, rule-based system. Many new products with no training data start with a heuristic rule system, and obtain training data only after users interact with it. Once you have training data, try to find patterns in it. If there are no patterns or only trivial patterns, then machine learning probably will not provide value. If there are many patterns and it is important to make accurate predictions, then using machine learning might be the right approach.

# Use Cases
### Email Smart Reply 
http://www.kdd.org/kdd2016/papers/files/Paper_1069.pdf
* Data: conversation data - Tech Support corpus
* Challenges: Quality of response, when providing suggestions, all top 3 suggestions should NOT be highly correlated, meaning diverse suggestions (cluster outputs and choose top 1 from each cluster), latency (run a model in order to decide if we have want to give suggestions or not - similar to markdown model) , privacy
* Stochastic Gradient Descent with AdaGrad, gradient clipping, normalization

### YouTube Recommendations
https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/2959100.2959190
Data: watch time, click-through rate, watch history, search history

### Cucumber Sorting
https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/ai-machine-learning/how-a-japanese-cucumber-farmer-is-using-deep-learning-and-tensorflow

### Google Photos
* https://www.wired.com/2015/06/how-googles-new-photos-app-can-tell-cats-from-dogs/
* https://www.blog.google/products/photos/picture-this-fresh-approach-to-photos/
* https://www.blog.google/products/photos/google-photos-one-year-200-million/
* https://www.blog.google/products/photos/google-photos-500-million-new-sharing/
